---
title: "New Paper on Quantum Computational Supremacy via High-Dimensional Gaussian Boson Sampling"
date: 2021-02-25T15:34:30-04:00
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - quantum computation
  - GBS
  - Gaussian Boson Sampling
  - photonics
  - Supremacy
---

Photonics is a promising platform for demonstrating quantum computational supremacy (QCS), the task of convincingly outperforming the most powerful classical supercomputers. Despite this promise, existing photonics proposals and demonstrations face significant hurdles. Experimentally, current implementations of Gaussian boson sampling lack programmability or have prohibitive loss rates. Theoretically, there is a comparative lack of rigorous evidence for the classical hardness of GBS. In this work, we make significant progress in improving both the theoretical evidence and experimental prospects. On the theory side, we provide strong evidence for the hardness of Gaussian boson sampling, placing it on a par with the strongest theoretical proposals for QCS. On the experimental side, we propose a new QCS architecture, high-dimensional Gaussian boson sampling, which is programmable and can be implemented with low loss rates using few optical components. We show that particular classical algorithms for simulating GBS are vastly outperformed by high-dimensional Gaussian boson sampling experiments at modest system sizes. This work thus opens the path to demonstrating QCS with programmable photonic processors. Check it out here: [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/2102.12474)
